---
title: Badges
order: 20
---

<style>
a.pets-artifact-badge {
  font-weight: bold;
  font-size: smaller;
  color: #72bf02;
  background-color: #000000;
  padding: 2px;
  text-decoration: none;
}
</style>

For PETS 2024, each accepted artifact will be granted one of the following two
badges. During the submission, the authors must select which badge they want
their artifacts to be evaluated against.

## Artifacts Available <a class="pets-artifact-badge">Artifact: Available</a>

This "Available" badge indicates that the artifacts are publicly available at a
permanent location with clear documentation on how it relates to the
corresponding paper and, if applicable, how to execute the artifact/evaluation
without execution error. This badge does *not* mean that the reviewers have
reproduced the results. Authors whose artifacts require extremely specialized
hardware or software are encouraged to choose this option. Similarly, authors
whose artifacts are "not reproducible" (e.g., outcomes of surveys) should also
select this option.

## Artifacts Reproduced <a class="pets-artifact-badge">Artifact: Reproduced</a>

The "Reproduced" badge indicates everything the "Available" badge does and, in
addition, that the submitted artifacts reproduce the main findings of the paper.
Note that this does not necessarily cover all experiments/data presented in the
paper. To submit artifacts for this badge, the authors must specify the commands
to run the artifacts clearly and describe how to reproduce each main finding of
the paper. Also, they must highlight which results of the paper are not
reproducible with the given artifacts. The artifact's quality, structure, and
documentation must allow the reviewers to check whether the artifact works as
claimed in the paper. Even if the authors choose this option, the review
committee may request to grant only an "available" badge if the reviewers cannot
reproduce the results (e.g., lack of computational resources).