---
title: Call for AEC Members
order: 60
---

For the fourth year, USENIX Security allows optional artifact evaluation (AE) of
artifacts that support a paper: software, hardware, evaluation data and
documentation, raw survey results, mechanized proofs, models, test suites,
benchmarks, and so on.

If you are interested in joining the artifact evaluation committee (AEC), please
fill out the form below. We expect that the AEC will consist of experienced
graduate students, postdocs, and researchers. The workload is no more than 1
review (typically around 10-15 hours per submission cycle (between Artifact
Submissions and Decisions). AEC members will serve for all three review cycles
for USENIX Security 2023 (single-cycle exceptions are possible if communicated
to the chairs at nomination time or well ahead of the submission cycle).

As an AEC member, you will not only help promote the reproducibility of
experimental results in systems research, but also get to familiarize yourself
with research papers just accepted for publication at USENIX Security and
explore their artifacts. For a given artifact, you may be asked to evaluate its
public availability, functionality, and/or ability to reproduce the results from
the paper. You will be able to discuss with other AEC members and anonymously
interact with the authors as necessary, for instance if you are unable to get
the artifact to work as expected. Finally, you will provide a review for the
artifact to give constructive feedback to its authors, discuss the artifact with
fellow reviewers, and help award the paper artifact evaluation badges.

Overall, you will gain insights into a modern AE process, get mentoring and
guidance during the process, and get a chance to receive a Distinguished
Artifact Reviewer Award, granted to AEC members who have contributed with
outstanding efforts and constructive feedback to authors during the AE.

How to Apply
------------

If you are interested in becoming a part of the AEC, please complete **[this
online form](https://forms.gle/mwhwJtZbAMXXTvqf7)**. Deadline: **September 15th,
2022 **.

You can reach the AEC chairs at [sec23aec@usenix.org](mailto:sec23aec@usenix.org) with any questions.